the bird started about an hour and a
half later than originally planned after
several hours of prep work in order to
make it happen Fox was Melissa Cutler's
here now to explain the painstaking and
detailed process behind burning that
home and Melissa the safest way to get
rid of the hazard was to burn it down
indeed you know it was methodical there
was quite a bit of science to it
consideration given to everything from
the type of fuel used the ignition
source in overall direction of the burn
preps for the burn started within hours
of a decision to use fire as the most
efficient method to destroy this 4,000
square foot cliff hanger there was a lot
of preparation work making sure this is
going to be successful the contractors
prepared you well they create advanced
throughout the house and they did the
safest way good safety meant creating a
security perimeter around the house in
case the teetering home tumbled into the
water I know there was a delay waiting
for some insurance certifications but
what that was done the contractors moved
as quick as possible once work got
underway contractors perched in a cherry
picker and armed with sledgehammers
busted out the windows they poured in
gasoline and broke up walls the fire
would spread faster I they're gonna let
it go all at one time because they're
not going to go back inside or allow
their equipment that close to the crews
spread bales of hay doused with fuel
inside the garage of the home some of
its stuffed in the walls and alongside
the house before ignition within minutes
smoke started pouring out it was a slow
process because they wanted a precise
burn ever mindful of neighbors they
started at the front and they finish the
backfill is going to let it go back
slowly to the back some of the debris
cascaded down the cliff and a smoldering
pile the challenging cleanup job for the
owners will begin by clearing what they
can on solid ground so crews can take
away the slab the homeowners insurance
policy does not cover the cost of
demolition that will be an out-of-pocket
expense Clarice Melissa thank you for
the detail we're going to continue
following the cleanup and the evacuation
the excavation over the next
few days to see more images of this fire
come to our website My Fox dfw calm